---
layout: post
title: Should you buy expensive mobile phones?
date: 2020-06-01 01:22 +0530
---

A few months back, I read a book called "Digital Minimalism". A lot of my views might have been inspired by the book. In this blog, I would like to share some of my thoughts on whether we should purchase expensive mobiles phones.  

For me, an expensive phone is something you WANT to buy, but you do not NEED to have it. Basically, it's a luxury item for your, because you might not be using most of its features. The good part is, most of budget phones these days have become pretty feature rich and have all the essentials. I remember purchasing Sony Xperia M4 Aqua, which suprisingly did not have OTG support. That really disappointed me back then. Now, when I think back, it might have been made a few things easier for me, but it definitely wasn't a blocker. There are other ways to transfer files, of course.  

I have been using Moto G5 Plus for almost 2 years now. There is hardly a day when I do not watch videos of the latest phones which have been released. Honestly, it tempts me a lot. I always keep adding these phone to my cart, but I never buy. Something always stop me from click OK. And I am really glad that I have not done it so far. I do plan to buy another phone soon because the current one is quite outdated, and the battery backup has degraded a lot. I hardly get throught the complete days. It's a very difficult decision for me, as someone who enjoys using the latest and the greatest gadgets. I can afford (with proper planning) the best phone availble today. But, I just don't do that. If I ever do that, I would feel guilty about it. Maybe, because I know I can do better things with that money. Maybe, I can help someone. Also, I don't generally have a good answer for "What would I do differently on that so-called flagship phone?". Well, the performance is definitely going to be faster. The experience would be smoother with these 120Hz display these days. BUT, the important question still is - do I really NEED them? As of now, I can say that I do NEED a phone which has a better battery life. It's also helpful when you're travelling and do not have a way to charge your phone. 

Camera, is quite debatable. And honestly, I'm not too sure if that's something I would consider a need. A good camera phone is obviously desirable. Do you need it? Well, that depends. For me, I own a DSLR, so when it's about real photography, I use that. At the same time, I also agree that it's not that portable. So, having a decent camera phone could be something I want. It obviously depends on how much I use it. If you're not really into taking photos, you could probably save some bucks here.  

The other features exists pretty much in every phone and they are mostly decent (like audio quality). I've used phones which had terrible audio quality (Gionee P2S), so can definitely say that having a phone which doesn't have this, is a straight no. Thankfully, you do not have to worry too much about it these days, as almost all the phones have decent audio quality.  

I would not go into further details about the specification. But iPhone SE 2 is a pretty good use-case for this discussion. It looks like a perfect phone with all the "essentials". Is that one of the best afforable phones today? Yes. Should you buy it? Maybe, mostly no. Think about what you would do with that phone, which you cannot do with a less expensive phone. I'll try comparing it with Pixel 3a. Although, Pixel 3a is also pretty expensive, but that's not the point. Both these phones would do whatever you require. Just think about it for a moment. You might think, iPhone SE 2 has new bionic chip which is available in its best iphone 11. How differently would you use it? Do you think you've a good answer? If you do have a good answer to this question, please click the OK button which I've always wanted to do. If you're thinking "Well, PubG might lag on the Pixel 3a phone, and it doesn't even have a good battery life". This is a valid ask. If gaming is so important for you, I don't go against it. Battery is definitely important. Which means, you've already figured out that Pixel 3a might not be the phone for you. But, if these were not so important for you, and you use your phone to mostly take pictures, it just might be the perfect phone for you. However, it would still not be  the final answer to our actual question. You might still want to compare it with a cheaper phone. You can then start comparing it with other phones, such as Xiaomi K20, or Realme X2. They might not have the same camera quality. If you can really tell the difference between a photo taken from a Pixel 3a and another one taken from Xiaomi K20, I would again not stop you. But if you're just looking for something to get by during daily life, you might want to save those extra bucks. You can go forth with other phones similarly. In the end, you'd be left with the optimum phone which you really NEED. Congratulation, you've just saved yourself some money, so buy something more useful from it.
