---
layout: post
title: Video Games - Good or Evil?
date: 2020-05-25 00:49 +0530
---

I have been into Video Games since I was a child. Well, I still am a child mentally. I have often seen people scolding their children for playing games on their computers or mobile devices. I still remember the day when my mom gave me a fierce look when she caught me playing Roadrash with my brother at around 1 AM (It was considered very late as a child.)

I am writing this blog at 1 AM today co-indicently, and I don't intend to sleep anytime soon. Things change a lot. But my mom never really scolded me for playing too much. She was mostly concerned with my health - if I had my meals on time. I had the habit of purchasing at least one game every month. There was a video game store in our main city market - Amit Video Games. That was where most of the students who would bunk their classes spend their time. They would mostly play Smackdown vs pain if they had a team, or God of war, when alone. Fortunately for me, it was not the same case. I did not have to really bunk to go there. My mom was okay with the idea of me playing games over there. The interesting part is, she often dropped me to play games there, and picked me later after she completed her work. Later, when I got my own cycle/bike, I could independently go there to play games with my friends. The good part was that I never felt addicted. Of course, I enjoyed playing a lot, specially when I had company. But I was always in control. I knew the need to have balance in life. My life is actually a contradiction of what people generally believe.

I was more addicted to buying games rather than playing them honestly. I wanted to have all good games available during that time. I had got unlimited plan for my broadband connection. I used to download torrents even during the night time. The download speed was hardly 20-25 kbps during those days. 30 kbps seems liked a miracle. I used to turn off my monitor at night and just leave the CPU ON so that the download still continues. It was definitely a huge distraction for me. I often found myself checking for progress while the download was going on. I wasn't really so interested about the game itself. It was my desire to have everything. I extended this desire to yet another level. I created a MS Word document where I listed all the games I've ever owned / played / completed. And trust me, that was a huge list. It was definitely not as huge as the notebook which Amit Video Games (AVG, as we used to call it) had. It had pages. I wanted most of them. Not all of them, because some of them were just stupid. I did have a decent taste. Later, Amit bhaiya, who was the owner of AVG realized that I owned some games which he did not have. So, he asked me if I can share them with him. That was when I started trading! I used to get other games in return for sharing the once I had. Obviously, he did not want me to have all the games. So, he usually only gave me a couple of DVDs for 4-5 games I gave him. I considered it a good exchange. A couple of more free games is definitely nice. The problem was, I didn't really play those many games. I just wanted them. I could have very easily downloaded them using my unlimited broadband connection. I just needed to keep it running for a couple of days, which wasn't a huge task for me.

Other than this addition to get all the games, there was nothing really about the games which affected me. I did enjoy playing some of the games. I wanted to complete them as soon as possible. I was some times hooked to a game, just because I wanted to complete it - and not because I was enjoying it. Well, that was a rare case. I generally played something I really enjoyed. And, of course, I had many options.

My mom knew about all of this. The good part, which I really liked was that she did not mind it. She knew, I was still able to manage my studies at the same time. I was not a topper, but I was better than an average. And I would highly give credit to these games that I played, I think, my common sense and problem solving skills actually became better. Most of the games are challenging. Generally, I do not like to play something which doesn't need any effort or skill. Trilby notes was one games which I still admire. It didn't have cool graphics, or anything extra ordinary. It was a very simple game where you had to actually type in commands to control your character - and that was pretty amazing. Talking about how cool my mom is, she once bought me a game for me while my exams were going on. She knew, I had this hunger to get a game every month. It was during my exams, when I asked her if I could buy another one. I was feeling pretty embarassed because of obvious reasons. (btw, I wanted to buy Midnight Club). She didn't mind at all. She even took me on her scooty to AVG right away! I was so surprised and happy that she trusts me, that I wouldn't screw up my exam because of this stupid game (sorry to those of you who like this game. I never really played it :D). That year, I scored the max I had score ever before that! I was extremely happy, because that was also the year when I received my first scholar badge. I missed getting the bagde in my previous year, and for very stupid reasons, I used to be ashamed of that. Now, when I think about that scholar badge, I really do not find anything cool about it. It just makes other people feel bad for not having. Anyway, since I had recived that badge, and it was after I put in a lot of effort, I was happy. I'll not lie, I did want to flaunt it. If you ask me, if there was anything I would like to change during my school day - it would be this. I would go back in time, collect my scholar badge as a prize since I put in quite a lot of effort to get it. But, I would never wear it. It creates differences between those who did not get it. And I know how bad that feels. That year, when I did not get it, I used to hide my pocket of my blazer so that no one could see my "normal" badge. I imagine how different it would have been. I would have really made a difference. I could have changed this notion that only the people who get that stupid badge are intelligent.

So, the point is that there's no point in blaming people for performing bad just because they play games. It's okay to be a part of it, till the time you realize the importance of other things in life.
