---
layout: post
title: The Face
date: 2021-10-02 23:16 +0530
---

## CHAPTER 1

Hello, I am Alan. I'm from Brooklyn, USA. I have a story to tell you about what happened in the night when I was an 11 years old.  

I was with my mom. She was in the kitchen and she was cooking my favourite food, spaghetti. I was happy until I heard a loud crash in the basement.  

I told my mom "Mom! Something fell in the basement". I said in a confused way. She said, "It's probably some cat which came through the basement window and knocked something out. I better go get that cat". So, I asked "Can I come with you?" she said". "Yes some other things fell, you should help me with picking up these stuff", mom said.
I said " ok mom". As we went down to the basement, we opened the basement door and it was just a shoe that fell down from the shoe rack. I helped her pick up the shoe but then I saw something. I started screaming and ran upstairs crying. My mom said in a frightened way "what happened?"

I couldnt speak clearly. I saw face--of-some--thing. She was terrified. Then she asked me to go to my bedroom and hide in the blankets or in the bathroom.

I hid in the blankets and had a little hole to see what is happening. I saw things I counldn't believe. I saw my mom laying on the floor with a book. I went slowly so that no one sees me and I took the book. My mom woke up. She said it was just a broom. She just layed on the floor to scare me more. But I definetly saw something. 

It had been 3 days. It went normal but today I read the book. It had these disturbing things like how to do rituals and things so I told mom about this and she burned it. But it returned on the porch. We were scared and were praying to keep the demons away, the holy prayer and then we burned the book and threw it in a garbage can with box covering it. We thought it was ok until -  

__"knock knock"__

My mom opened the door and saw a man saying a book was on the door porch and asking us if we want.
We said no you can have it and the man said "Ok, this can be my reading time" and left, we were relieved to find it gone. but I'm still confused.

Why do I see this same shadow in the background of my mother's selfies and my selfies and photos?

-- Akshat Sarkar
